                            -----------------------------------------------
                                        The Dining Philosophers
                            -----------------------------------------------

    The dining philosophers problem is an example problem often used in concurrent algorithm design to 
                illustrate synchronization issues and techniques for resolving them.


Problem statement:

Five philosophers dine together at the same table. Each philosopher has their own plate at the table. 
There is a fork between each pair of adjacent plates. The dish served is a kind of spaghetti which has to be eaten with two forks. 
Each philosopher can only alternately think and eat. Moreover, a philosopher can only eat their spaghetti 
when they have both a left and right fork.

Thus two forks will only be available when their two nearest neighbors are thinking, not eating. 
After an individual philosopher finishes eating, they will put down both forks. 
The problem is how to design a regimen (a concurrent algorithm) such that any philosopher will not starve; 
    i.e., each can forever continue to alternate between eating and thinking, 
      assuming that no philosopher can know when others may want to eat or think 
      (an issue of incomplete information).


Problems:

The problem was designed to illustrate the challenges of avoiding deadlock, a system state in which no progress is possible.
            What are deadlocks???
                -> In concurrent computing, deadlock is any situation in which no member of some group of entities can 
                   proceed because each waits for another member, including itself, to take action, such as 
                   sending a message or, more commonly, releasing a lock.
                More simple:
                    -> deadlock: the situation when each of at least two tasks is waiting for a lock 
                       that the other task holds. Unless something is done, the two tasks will wait forever.
                
                Releasing a lock?????????
                    -> a lock or mutex (from mutual exclusion) is a synchronization primitive that 
                       prevents state from being modified or accessed by multiple threads of execution at once.
                    -> Careless use of locks can result in deadlock or livelock.

A proposal in which each philosopher is instructed to behave as follows:

        a. think unless the left fork is available; when it is, pick it up;
        b. think unless the right fork is available; when it is, pick it up;
        c. when both forks are held, eat for a fixed amount of time;
        d. put the left fork down;
        e. put the right fork down;
        f. repeat from the beginning.

Data Races (Race Conditions) — What Are They?
    -> Data races are a common problem in multithreaded programming. 
       Data races occur when multiple tasks or threads access a shared resource without sufficient protections, 
       leading to undefined or unpredictable behavior.




Sources:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dining_philosophers_problem

